It, it it's going up. So, yeah, you can go ahead and start. Well, both of my
grandfathers were born in Germany and came to this country uh in the early 18
eighties. I have, I came here. We have the date for my uh this is actually my
great grandfather, quarter young uh said he arrived at the port of New York in
October of 1881. And what I'm looking at is um mm doctors naturalization, paper,
declarations of intention, the first stage of getting American citizenship. And
I see by this that he signed his name with an X. So obviously he did not know
how to read or write. And I don't uh this great grandfather died before I was
born. So I don't remember him at all as my grandfather who came together as a
family. My grandfather was a, was a baby. He was uh one or two years old when
they came from Germany and they settled uh the farm outside of Waukesha,
Wisconsin. Oh, so they, they took a ship to get over here, I think. And do you
know uh where they, where they went to after they arrived here? Where they live.
Oh, no, it's my understanding that the family history has come down, that they
came directly to, uh, Wisconsin in Milwaukee or Waukesha area. It must have been
some, some contact there. So, when, when he got here, was he naturalized pretty
quickly? I don't know, tell you how that works. I don't know that my great
grandfather ever became a citizen. Uh, I, I think not, uh, because, uh, I also
have some place here. The uh naturalization hope from my grandfather, as I said,
he was also born in Germany and uh he was naturalized or became a citizen. Uh
you know, you out or something. Oh, right. I don't think this style because I
only have 11 page of it. But uh I know it was uh during the World War One era
when uh a lot of uh of uh people of German descent in Wisconsin became very
nervous because America was going to war with Germany, were unsure of how, how
they were going to be treated by the American government. And so there was a big
rush to get citizenship papers and that's when my grandfather became a citizen
and my grandfather was born the 20th of April, 1879. So he did it then. Yeah. Uh
uh two years old when he uh 31 when he uh when uh the family came to this
country. OK. Good, good. Um Contradicting what I said before that landed in New
York. Uh The rest of the papers have been landing in Baltimore. And that, I
think that Baltimore is true. That's what uh my cousin who has done a little
research on this landed in Baltimore. And that's what this paper is also came
upon. Former resident Pomeranian in Germany. That's the, that's the state or
section of East Germany now, actually, it's been ceded to Poland after world war
one came from the part of it. But uh both of my grandfathers were actually born
in that country, one in Tia and one in Pomerania. Well, oh my God, I'm sorry.
Ok. Mhm. Yeah, I think, are you interested? You wanna hear that? Both? Fine. Uh
My name was Barnes and this is from my, my grandfather's genealogical chart. It
says Barnes name derived from one or more men by the name of Bjorn who came to
England with William the car for during six centuries. But this is all his
history, uh the name Barnes or Barnes, but widely over most of England in every
profession. Our push known ancestors to the family of Edward Barnes in Eastridge
and Lynn Regis endorsed the County of England and they moved to the United
States 1570 1680 they moved to sail. Oh, they, they sailed to America in 1632
and settled in on the east coast that all the ancestors Menon were living out on
the east. And my grandfather, uh when I 100 uh, they all fell on Long Island and
helped found east of Southampton. 11 Children and people, my grandfather came
in. But we, you see, we have the histories of them since from 1580. Right up to,
to the present time. The, um, when they, when they're small, 1580 right up to
the present time, um, when they, when they sailed to America, do you know
anything about the world? Why they sailed over? I have one, one was a, one came
over and was a schoolmaster. A lot of them, the, um, in the, uh, uh, became
ministers, ministers just on the ministry. My grandfather, my great grandfather,
um, ok. And, uh, do you know, is there anything about there when they moved over
to, uh, from the east coast? Who was not? Is that? Mhm. It was times got bad and
they came and they farmed and I forget advantages after the Barnes. And I live,
I mean to talk a while while you. Ok. I was just looking at more papers. I, as
I'm going through here, uh, we've always, uh, wondered how the spelling of our
name, my name. Uh, and I see here on my great grandfather's paper where he was
the one that could not read and write and he just signed with an X there. The
name is spelled Gude RJ A HN and that was later changed to Yon. Uh, and some of
my grandfather's brothers dropped the R in the name, they spell it good on, they
pronounce it good and spell it that way. So the, the spelling was not absolute
it just however they, they wrote it down when I came to this country here. I
have the, the actual uh naturalization papers of my uh grandfather. And I see he
was, was not naturalized until, uh, it's, it's uh seventh day of September, uh,
1920. So it was really after, after the end of World War Two. But it was still
during that period. World War One, after World war after World War one. And, uh,
I see earlier they, uh, September 7th. No, that's the same thing. He takes the
oath of allegiance to the United States. And then after that, that same day
becomes a, a citizen. Can I? Ok. Now, I'm a little, I, I, sorry, I was looking
at very old history. Now, I have the history from 1780 7-Up to 19 hundreds. Um,
my grandfather's father was Porter Philander Barnes and my grandfather was
Laical Arthur and he became a Methodist minister and they moved to, um, uh, they
lived, they were married in Walker shop with France, but lived in Brookfield and
their son was Ras was a Rascal artist and he had four Children. And one of them
being my father Arthur Edwards. And they were, they were living out in Colorado
Springs where my father worked. My father and mother moved back to Madison and
enrolled in the University of Wisconsin. And as they were telling me that my
grandfather, my great father, great grandfather and my father all graduated from
the University of Wisconsin. And that was, um, and I said they all moved again
to Wisconsin farm and times were bad. But, you know, uh, you know what years it
are? Well, they would have moved there but I just had it, he land in Brookfield.
Yeah, I just had that one before Rascal when Rascal was born. Yeah, of Rascal.
Uh, 1858. Up to a, yeah, that's when they moved in 1868. So they moved to
Wisconsin. They bought land. That's the land around coast of Milwaukee would
have been settled in the 18. So they just bought, but they came from New York
and moved to Wisconsin late in life and lived in a small log cabin, ports in
Brookfield and died there. And that was my grandfather's father. And so he must
have moved and joined his son and from our week where they arrived. Oh, right.
Delete some of this. But, yeah, I mean, oh, yeah, I, I'm not. II, I won't, I
won't delete everything. No. But do you, do you want me to look at the
reference? I said the family spell the, to my, most of my grandfather's
brothers. Spell it. Wrr. Uh, I don't know what the reason I was. I was going to
tell you a little bit about the other side of my family, my mother's side and
actually my uh, grandfather on that side arrived in this country about the same
time. But I don't because he was considerably older than my paternal
grandfather. Uh, and, but he was a young man. He was like 21 years old when he
arrived. That was the one who died before he met him. Or no, no, no, no. My
great grandfather died. No, I knew both of my grandfathers. My, my mother's
father died when I was about 12 years old. But my uh my father's father lived to
be 92 or 93 Elaine met him. So we have pictures of him when he had most of our
family. Now, the story on the other family is Pits Pitzke. That was my mother's
maiden name. See that sounds rather Polish, but it was spelt the German way. But
with the ski on the end, that sounds Polish and the family. Actually, most of
the family stayed in the Milwaukee area. I think there were, there were, I think
eight Children in the family, only a couple of boys, most of them were girls. So
I have a lot of distant relatives in Milwaukee. Um But my, my grandfather was
the only one that moved far out of Milwaukee. And family story has it that he
was a carpenter and barn builder who traveled no, throughout Wisconsin building
barns when he was a young man and saved a little money. And eventually married a
woman from, uh, you know, Medford Wisconsin, and her father had homesteaded some
land. And so my grandfather and grandmother took over the farm and bought some
additional land. And my grandfather was one of the early uh purebred Holstein
breeder in that part of the state. He started a purebred dairy herd there, uh
probably about 1920 something like that. And that's how my father happened to
meet my mother because my father had gone through agricultural short course
here. And what became what they called a milk tester that traveled around from
farm to farm, doing a Babcock butterfat test. So the farmers could select their
best cat. And so he met the very old farmer's daughter a few years later, they
ran away and got married. I like, here's all, all the, all the graduate college
degrees are we do? See, what about the will, you know? Well, see, I don't have
much on that. I don't, I wish I had it written up. Oh, we had this. Yeah. But
that's, you know, that's just a, you know, I just check that stuff that I did
bring my cooking, I think. No, it wasn't in the cooking of my mother's and she
ran the newspaper, but it just said someone had taken over just because she got,
she was an editor of a little newspaper, you know, so the genealogy that, um,
Llewellyn does is the, the Bonds or the bullets you both related. What would you
go? I thought I will. She does them all because I got somebody who does both but
she hasn't been able to trace the will as far back maybe. Or yes, she does it
all. Maybe she did a will at one. He does some of that. She does everything she
can get her hands on. This is all her, all kind of mmm that he done, you know,
the picture she got? Oh, this was, um, this is Kim. Um, OBI. I don't know. Yeah,
I said she just got little pictures of, of everything that she was. It starts
throwing your mom. So that's my, my, that was my brother who was the youngest U
W-2. But that's not true anymore. I think kids start that young now, don't you?
I start at, like, enrolling in college but you will be, you will probably be
able to enter as a sophomore also, won't you? Than what? Eew? Or a, if you went
to eew or a college once you take, you know, you want, you want tutoring? Oh,
you undergraduate. But he said he just discovered a T him three times that every
time he comes, he brings his homework and since he's been in the home and how
old is the student? So he's like, you know, what a freshman I talk, I don't
know. Uh,