This is, what day is it? August 26th, 9 2016. And I'm talking with Elaine Guan
and Jim Guan. My parents who were born in 19 3100 years ago, 100 years ago. So
you were saying you were saying where you lived on, where did you live in when
you were married in August 1951 27 and who lived there with him the whole
family. But my, my, we moved there after my mother died and my father came and
we entered the family and kind of held it together and uh everybody was in
school or brothers and sisters were in college. I was in high school, middle
school and we uh were there until Jim and I got married. We still at 727 Jim.
Were you at 727? And you were in college at the time? You were, you dropped out
of college and you were working where at in New York, New York Life Insurance
Company and the people were wonderful there. And so they knew, but I was waiting
for Jim. Yeah. And he came and we got married and you were working near the
Capitol Square. Yeah. And uh they all came Dubai. But no, you must have known
that I was gonna have a baby but he brought all pre stuff for the baby. Now,
which one of them helped you get the church where you got married. I remember
one of the, one of, one of the women had her, her father was a minister. So they
arrange me to move to that church. Remember what church it was? Remember the
name of the church? Dad? No, I think I, I think it was a method history. That
would make sense. Mom, your grandfather was a Methodist minister. So that would
make sense. Maybe very nicely gracious enough to. And then did they help you
pick out your dress? You said you had a dress? How I was a tan suit that you
don't even remember what I wore? Dad? Do you remember what mom wore? She said,
well, I didn't know and she said a tan suit that seemed right. But I don't. And
dad, you were coming, you were stationed at Fort Wood, Missouri. And I just had
a three day pass. I think I hit you hitchhiked to your wedding. I, no, it's ok.
And you came up, I saw I googled the date and they said it was a Friday. Does
that sound right? Your wedding day was a Friday? II, I couldn't say that I went
back and looked at the Google calendar and it said you hitchhiked up on a Friday
and you had your uniform on. Um, how did he look at his uniform? He was
gorgeous. He lost a lot of weight. He was kind of, how many pounds did you lose?
You went into the army training? Dad lost Â£25. He was a little, he was fat, fat
and I don't believe that I remember what he, what I, when he got off. So I
thought you came up on a train and it was when you walk and he was gorgeous, he
had a full haircut and he was then probably Suntan from being outside. I love
that. But it was gorgeous. And then you got married in the church and who were
the witnesses? Marian? Marian Harold, my sister and her husband. Ok. And then we
went to the Lorraine Hotel which I thought was about as eloquent as you could be
the Lorraine Hotel on, yeah, on the, on like Wilson street. That area, I forget,
I think about it was the King Boulevard but I don't think. Yeah. Yeah, it still
stands. But yeah, how did you get the money to go to the Lorraine hotel? Did the
army pay you? Do you live? I, I can't remember, I mean, they didn't pay me to
get married. Yes. Yes, he got it back. I don't know, like $75 a month or
something when I was in there. Wow. It was a private Right. And how long had you
been in basic training? I don't know. How long you, well, I went in of cloud to
first and so 2, 2.5 months then seemed right. But I went after school was out.
So it had to be close to you first with me for 2.5 months. Then you had the
three day leave. Yeah, you would. Ok. So then you went back a married man and
that come down until after Joel was born or just before he was born. So then
mom, you went back to work for a while or that was because I was home when you
were born because that's one of my friends all bought it all the presents. So
then your your friends brought baby presents. Yeah, something about blankets.
You mostly blankets because I remember I gave them to Joel and he would, he had
the one he liked, he pick it up and put his couple of glass. He like me. So I
pick it up but I never knew which blanket he want. But Joel, he was a beautiful
boy if you encourage the paper picture, the people for being a, a pretty baby.
Uh So was jaw born in Madison or in Missouri like seven or eight months pregnant
or something like that. She moved down to Missouri and Joel uh was born in the
she had the hospital privileges or medical privileges or so uh we were living in
a little town of Raleigh Missouri, about 25 miles away from the, from the base.
And, uh, uh, my friend had a car. He lived there too and I rode back and forth
with him. So, when, um, uh, um, went into labor, he must have taken us into the
hos hospital on the base. I remember we just got home that evening and we went
back to the hospital, but the strange thing was see, the hospital was under
quarantine because of some contagious disease. Was it measles or mumps or
something like that before the vaccine? And so they would not let any visitors
in or out. So I couldn't go into the hospital. Mom could go in as a patient, but
I couldn't visit her there. But I had you off. I said, tell my husband and they
didn't tell him and he sat up all night. I had him about midnight and I said, be
sure and call my husband and they didn't call him until the morning, Jim sat up
all night meeting. I call, do you remember that? Well, you know, I remember uh
being able to contact her and not getting any word all night because that's it.
And then after that, we lived the same middle two room cottage in Raleigh,
Missouri or it was a long time, maybe a couple of months probably. And then I
got orders to go to Germany. And so then I had to go back to Madison. Wow. Uh
Were you expecting? Ok. It was more than that because I went over to Germany and
about everything happened in about May, it was about May of 52 that I went, went
to Germany. So that's my mom came back too. So just two months after Joel was
born. Yeah, I do. Yeah. All right. Because I remember walking my dad at our
house and I remember walking that long path. We headed for a house for the long
sidewalk. The house was set back. It was kind of a back that house in Raleigh
better. Thank you.