Up for himself for a summer home, for his family. They had a couple of kids that
were just a little younger than me. And uh then for my, my dad, the there, there
was an old place like a cottage on the farm, um that they, they fixed up and
added uh a new kitchen and put in a furnace and modernize the waterworks uh uh
for my dad and his family. And so that all the time, about the time I started
school, we uh we lived in that house. I, I've got the years a little bit wrong
because no, that's right. I went the, the, because the winter I went and spend
with my grandparents when my dad went to college, that was the year before I
started school. So when I was, when I was five years old, really? And so, and
during, at the end of that year is when Drossel uh bought the farm and, and then
my dad's position changed to being manager and Drossel put a lot of money in the
farm, fixed up the barn and bought adjacent farm and bought purebred cattle and
uh uh new tractor and all kinds of, uh, just put a lot of money into the farm.
And so that was a better house. The second house that you remember was a more
modern house. Yeah, it was smaller but, but, yeah, very much modernized. But,
but the, the original farmhouse that I lived in the first five years, uh, we had
a toilet and running water and all that. So you can't say it was an old
fashioned host. We uh as I remember we had a cook stove in that house. I think
when we make up the new house is about the time we got a electric uh uh stove
too. But uh do either of those houses still exist? No, no, no mom, mom and I,
but, but I know I was, but our early retirement years when we first moved back
to Madison, we went back to this farm. I, I kind of knew from afar from a
distance what had happened to it, but I didn't know anything about the people.
So we just went there and knocked on the door. They, they had uh they had built
a new house pretty much in the location of the old house because they said it
was a beautiful location on top of the hill. And uh they had built a brand new
house and this guy was a industrialists that had to own a big uh manufacturing
business in Heartland. And that's why he wanted a house close by. And uh, uh,
the land had been, the old farm buildings were all gone completely. The, the,
the farm at some stage had a fire burned down and it was all foundation.
Everything was all torn down then. But we walked over the land that we
remembered and again, that has been changed very greatly. They did a lot of
earth moving to, to change it and because it was, there were a lot of hills and
gullies in it and they were seeded in the trees, evergreens like they should,
that should have been, that shouldn't have been farmed. It was too, too steep.
The hill and uh, the land, the, the, the, the level of prairie land on top was
rented out and somebody was growing corn in it and that was good soil. So I was
doing fine and, um, the, but it stopped the erosion. It was highly eroded. I
remember my, you did the people let you come in the people when you knocked on
the door, did the people let you come in or walk around? Yeah. It was a very
nice lady. As I said, I knew it was a guy from walking or not walking, but from
the, on the plan of the factory in the Heartland at all the farm. And she was
very nice to explain who I was and she invited us to walk over the land and see
it. And so I say that wasn't the 19 nineties. I suppose because we, I should
look on a map and see if I can find it. Shaniqua. And what, what was the lake
called? Pine Lake? Ok. That's not hard to find. That's, that's big enough that
it's not all the state maps. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. And swallow school still there.
Swallow school. What happened is, as I said, when I went there, uh, because the
birth rate was very low in the depression. The, the, the, uh, school attendance
actually declined. I think it hit a low point while I was there of 22 students
in the eighth in the eighth grades. The last I reme remember, uh, of the same
district. Uh, I mean, no, no, no changes in that. But, and, uh, they had 16
rooms and then again in the, in the eighth grade, this was an eighth grade
school. So there were 16, were on this orchard, uh, being two rooms full of kids
for each grade and I don't know if it's grown any si since then or not because
that was at least 25 years ago. Uh, but, uh, that's where, uh, Emily was a music
teacher there for a good many years. She was at, her Children did not go to that
school. They either lived in Hartland District or North Lake District but not,
not, uh, swallow school district. Yeah. Ok. Swallow is, um, kind of between the
North Lake and Heartland. Uh, oh, you're recording this. So I was, I was telling
this, um, young nurse who was here, I call her young, she was like 30 Mary Beth
was her name. Telling her when we were talking about Swallow School that it was
named Swallow. And this because it was built at the crossroads of two county
roads, highway K and highway E, uh, which was out in the country but only a
little more than a mile from, from the city limits of Heartland. But, um, when I
was there, the, uh two Willows named Swallow still lived on the farm. It was
diagonally across the, the, the intersection from the land where the school was
located. But they were still operating this farm. They had a hired man, of
course, but they were, they were probably in their eighties where I remember
them because I just remember two old ladies sitting on the house had kind of
like a big Miranda around a big old farmhouse. And, uh, that was prime land that
was prairie land. Uh And, uh, uh, it was striking to me because it was a, it was
a, you know, a big farm for the time, but at at least 100 and 20 acres and maybe
more than that, but at least 100 and 68 acres, 280 you know, 100 and 60 acres.
And the, the man who ran it all with horses, they had like at least four
workhorses. And that was unusual at that time because everybody else had, had a
tractor by then and you would be plowing and a heavy work with a tractor. But,
uh, he continued use horses and he was a, um, had a stumped leg, I think, I
think had a, had a leg amputated because he kind of limped around. But he could,
he could manage the horses and had a little, uh, I, I don't know if I should
call it a trailer or a wagon that, uh, that, uh would, would pull behind the,
uh, farm implements as he drove the four horses with a big plow or disk or
whatever, her harrowing, uh, implements they, they had, but that was unusual to
run up the arm by that size by horse. Do you think the Swallows were the
Swallows original homesteaders there? The Swallow family were the original
homesteaders were the women or Swallow, as they say two with, I know, made
ladies, uh, recall, I don't know if they'd ever been to her, but there was no
younger generation in there and I assume they're parents had probably, uh,
homesteaded homes, homesteaded or I won't say homesteaded. But, uh, bought this,
this land because it would have been a very prosperous farm. And there was a
big, there was a big, um, old barn but not a modern dirty barn. They never had
no cause while I was there, kept the horses in. Yeah. How did your dad choose to
live? And your dad and mom got married. I don't even know exactly where they
were married in the Waukee Shaw probably area. Well, the story again, I only
hear the stories they eloped and got married in Illinois because there was no
wait, waiting time in Illinois at that time. But anyhow, they didn't have a, or
formal wedding. But anyhow, my dad, uh, at first get around the farm on, um, up
north of Milwaukee and New THS. Uh it's in the Cedarburg area, I think in
actually a corner of Ozaki County that adjoins Milwaukee. And I don't know if
you ran that farm for one or two years, but I think ser was born while they
lived there. So that was probably the first after they were married and then uh
for whatever reason, probably a better farm or whatever because I don't know
anything about the farmville before I was even born, but then ran a farm and
Heartland, not the farm I was born on, but a different farm just a mile away.
And I think he just ran that for one year or so and then ran the farm in
Shanequa where I was born. So in a, in a fairly short period of time in their
young married life, he operated three different farms, but then he stayed in
Chine for quite some time. I was there. I went through 8th, 8th grade, started
high school while we lived in Shanequa. So, so I was uh, 1314 years old. So
that's how many years he would have stayed in gene, 31 to 46 or something like
that. Back 15 years. Yeah. It's kind of amazing that your dad went back to
school while they were so shortly after the depression because it sounded like
they still didn't have a lot of money that he could afford to go back to school
or sister or tribute to my mother's ambition. She said that's why we went to
college. We, my sister and I, and I think back, I always knew I was going to
college. I don't know who told me that. But I, I knew that from the time I can
first remember or started first grade. Wow. I was on my way to college. But as
you did too, I think, but that wasn't when both your parents had been to
college. I wasn't so unusual, but for me it was. But, um, but my, my dad out of
high school had gone to the UW Farm short course, which was like a 16 week
winter program for two years, which was highly educated for a farmer. And at
that time, and, uh, part of that credit would transfer to the, the bachelor's
degree. So he had that to start with, I don't know how the transfer was made at
the time because, uh, you know, what he had were, were, were a lot of the
practical farming courses was not not much basic, uh, science and that. But
anyhow, he went back to college with the idea of working towards a, a bachelor's
degree. Yeah. But it only lasted one year but the fact that they were, you know,
barely making it or that the farm wasn't making a lot of money at that time. It
sounded like, I think by that time, by 1936 they had recovered from the worst of
the depression. Ok. That's what I wanted a little bit of money to work with. Got
it. The other story. I don't know why I connected to that, but we bought a new,
a new car. 1937 Nash Lafayette who, and that was a big event in my life. I'm
sure it was in our parents' life. Probably the first new car my dad I never
owned, I'm sure. Oh, and anyhow, that was the car while it was fairly new that
my mother had her crash and, and the car was, well, the front end was mashed in
real well, the car was repairable. And, uh, it's the car I learned to drive. I
shouldn't say I learned to drive because I learned to drive a farm truck and
that, but it's the car I first drove, but I had a armed driver's license when I
was 14 years old. So I could, I could start driving and I ended up driving that
to high school. The last, the last year, a Nash and remember my first, first
dating in that car. So I bet a car got some history. My, my, my girlfriend, I
read, we happened yesterday we had a folk singer here and hes, I read the, the
old song. Good night I read. Now we got a kind of teaser. I mean, that wasn't me
but other people when we go out with a group or other couples, so they would
teach them. We sing good night. You know, that I wasn, I wasn't a great singer
but she was ironically she was very musical. She went, studied music and I
started in a Catholic school but eventually got her phd and then she moved to
California and taught voice more oral. Wow, music up there for, as a career
because we run into a few class reunions. Yeah. This, this will make you feel
old. But I have my 50th class reunion next year. I'm having a hard time
believing that one. So I have to decide whether to, whether to go with them.
Yeah. In those years when I was six or seven years old, the first grade we had a
neighbor, uh, family, not too far away, much more in the city block from us. But
I had a boy, the other name was Bradley Douglas Bradley. And he and I went the
first four or five years of school together at, uh, swallow School. And, uh, uh,
in a small school I, you say you were at 22 students. You, you got to know
somebody pretty well and we would walk to school together on home many times. Uh
uh What was I said? Oh, well, I said, I remember uh sitting in his living room
and then his mother was a, a very educated woman and used to discuss things with
us. And uh for some reason, remember the, the conversation about whether we
would live to the year 2000? Wow. And this was made in 1937 or so. I am. She was
not young when she had them. She was probably at 40 years old when he was born.
So, so then she was at least 45. So she said, well, I'm not gonna live in the
year 2000. But you boy as well. Which was very, very true, very true. You know
where he is? It was, it was the first time I saw the millennium. But what did it
happen? It happened? And where is Doug Bradley? Now? I lost track with him. I, I
last, I knew, I think he got his medical doctorate at UW. But I didn't. No. And
then those Jews. Yeah, I, I, and I'm, I'm, I don't know why I'm so sure that I
can't remember how I knew that. But I, I know his older brother, his brother was
like 10 years older than he, we were. And I know his brother got his medical
degree as I said they were a very intellectual family. Would sji have filled you
in about that. She might, sji might have known and passed that on to you. I was
wondering if Sji had that information about him getting a doctor. No, I never
thought of that connection. But no, I don't, I don't know if she knew the same
people. I'm not sure he went to UW. As far as that goes. I know his older
brother did. That's all. But I, oh, oh, many good stories. Dad. Oh, great love
hearing this mom. You want to come and join us that she feels left out of these
conversations. She is, uh, but she can hear him too. You doing? Ok, de oh, you
quarter to four. Yeah, I gotta get going. I know. No, it's only a quarter to
four. But you've been telling good stories. I appreciate it. I hope you like
telling him because I like hearing them and still melt the, the herd by hand.
And she was always out at the bar and milking along with them at five in the
morning or six in the morning. She's a, wow, they didn't start early in the
morning that they still to this day. I mean, by our standard, my dad was the
opposite. He going to school, he learned to milk cows at 12 hour intervals. And
because he, I always had a hired man and he had worked on farms when he was
young. You started with the milk like at five in the morning, at five at night.
So you got done at night by six or 630. You were done at the evening free. So,
my dad was a early milking farmer. The opposite. They, they milked the cows when
they go, when they woke up in the morning and 887 or something. And, uh,
consequently would be milking till eight o'clock at night. And, and they were,
they were not hung up on a, a 12 hour schedule. So they can, we welcome up seven
in the morning and five at night or six at night. But, uh, maybe they weren't
worried about maximum milk production and all of that. They were, they were,
that's how they made their living too. So, but they just had, hadn't been to
college to learn why. And so, uh, so for us when we visit Pissy, that always
seemed lazy that they didn't get up early in the morning and milk the cows and
were out in the bar until late at night. That must have been interesting or fun
when you were five years old up there. Did they have like indoor plumbing or
what was different? Indoor plumbing? No, no, no, no, no. Washed up outside in
the winter in the winter. I'm trying to picture going to the bathroom in the
winter. It was in the kitchen near the, near the kitchen stove. So the kitchen
was fairly warm but no indoor plumbing. Got it. But, but, yeah, but you went
outside to the toilet? Yeah. Uh, uh, and what was I gonna tell you? 01 of the
things I remember about, uh, oh, several things I remember about that winter but
one breast and they were, they still had some, some forest land. They were
clearing on the farm. So they cut down. Hello. Good morning. It's happy hour
time. I'm just, oh, come on your beer. You bought a cow? Thank you. Listen to
stories from all this. Oh, yeah, that's the best you you want. Why? In your
line? Yeah. Yeah. Oh, yes. Hey, Susan, we'll call you back. Ok. Yeah. All right.
All right. Love you. Ok, bye, Susan. She said she loves you and she'll call you
back. I guess I could have let you talk to Susan. Do you wanna talk to her now?
Do you wanna talk to Susan now or do you wanna finish the answer? I'm gonna put
that right on your desk. Where, where's Barbara today? She went down the hall. I
don't know. She'll probably be back. Thank you. Of course. Ok. Thank you for
helping us. That was telling a story about the winter and they were logging or
something. They were cutting down trees. I remember making wood, logging that
wood. They, they still had, we would call forest on their farm. They just
gradually and it was probably 75% forest were w when, when we started the farm
and they kept cutting trees down every year and what they, that's what they call
breaking land. Where after you cut the trees down, a few years later, you
dynamite the, the stumps and then you could start plowing and harrowing and
planting uh, fields. So your farm slowly expanded as the woods shrunk. Yeah, I
can remember, uh, uh, ma what we call making wood. We go out and cutting,
cutting down the trees and sawing up the logs and the reasonable, um, like 1012
ft lengths that they could put on a, uh, a bobsled, the horse drawn sled and the
hall of men to the farmstead. And later they would be sawed up for firewood
because they were, they were heating the house and cooking in the kitchen with
wood. You had to have a pretty big stack of wood there every winter, not high.
Um, that's fine. And, and, and to me that was exciting because on our farm we
didn't, we didn't, uh, you didn't have any forest to cut down. So they go down
and, uh, they didn't have power saws then. So they must have been sawing,
treated down by hand. Oh, I remember him and shopping with axes chopping all the
brush off, having big brush piles. You burned. What was Christmas like there? I
can't imagine Christmas time. What, uh, I'm gonna get you some water. I, I think
my mother came up to visit us for a few days over Christmas. Which would make
sense. Yeah. You said he, his mother came up to visit, he was staying with the
Pips key when he was five water to help you swallow. Oh, I don't know that that
was the only time she came up. But I know, I know she came up there but I was
also gonna tell you about that. But, um, when we went up there, most probably
the first of September or the start of the school year, we went up by train. It
was an overnight train, uh, on the old two line where we boarded the train at
Slinger Wisconsin, the passenger, you have to see the railroad but it go through
Milwaukee. But I don't know why the station was at because we didn't live quite
always away. But that's where it was. And, um, I don't know who met us at the
train because they didn't have a, they didn't have an automobile truck at that
time, but they, it was not by horse and buggy. So they must have had some
friends or relatives that, um, picked us up by. And, uh, and, and I think we, I
think we went to Dorchester. I think that was the closest train station. I don't
think Stetson had a train passenger station and, but anyhow, my, well, anyhow it
started my sister and I went up there alone. So I remember them putting us on
the train. And I think back about today, I don't think you put a, a five and a
seven year old on a train for, we go there. I don't think so. Dad, we got there
and, uh, for me of the overnight on a drain was like, forever at that time. I
mean, it was overnight. So that's a very different experience. Oh, first time,
the last time I was overnight on a train until I was in the army. You might as
well have been going to the North Pole, you know, overnight on a train. Yeah,
you probably weren't kind of train until you were an adult. No, I, I think,
yeah, it's hard to remember. They serve you good beer here. That's quite good
beer. Yeah. Yeah, I know. They almost always have the, some, some of them once
in a while they even have. So I imported here, but I don't know where they get
it done. Let us get a budget for beer or wine or something. But happy I am. You
want another sip of wine now or are you good with water? The wine didn't go down
so well, I think, well, I probably have to get going dad. Uh Terry. Hello. I'm
practicing being my dad to see if it's loud enough. Is this loud enough test
test? Ok. This is test number two. Practice test test, test, testing. Testing is
the microphone the correct way. Does this work? Testing