Now we won't know what to say. What day is today December 1st, 2022. Um What
were you talking about? You? I don't know. I was just going to record what you
were saying. Well, you could tell the story about Henrietta again, but you just
told it to me. So I, you don't have to say it all over again. Um, but I will
ask, I will tell you that when I was looking at your ancestry, I noticed I
didn't know how young your mother, Mabel was that she was 29 when she died. I
had no idea. I guess I didn't put it together if you were only seven years old.
She was married young, I think only 19 when she was young and had two Children
right away. So, so I was born when she was like 21 and it, it just, I never did
the math before and I noticed how young she was. What a, what a young life that
was to be lost. Um, and it did say on the, the certificate or on something, it
said that uh the cause of death was carcinoma of the liver or is it something tu
tumor on the liver? So, what's your take liver cancer? And, and the big lawsuit,
uh, that went to the Wisconsin Supreme Court was whether the liver was caused by
her auto accident two years before that can be caused by something like that.
Well, in the court case, no, and uh it cannot and George and sell and I'm sure
it was George's decision always said no, cancer cannot be caused by that. And I
always took the position that liver cancer in a 29 year old, 29 year old is so
rare that I don't believe that it was not caused by the damage. Everybody in the
news that her, she went into the steering post, you know, the before bro broke
revs and then, and, uh, I al I always believe that due to this day, the cancer
was caused by the auto accident. She never, never fully recovered from that. Was
she in the hospital, um, a long time or did she come home mostly recovered at
home? But, um, but was, was under treatment as, as they say, never, never really
got well from it. You know, it, it, it ruined both knees, her knees went into
the dash. And so I don't, I don't think she ever really could stand up and walk
after that. And, uh, it was very thin, I think, um, I think, or, you know, it
could have been the, the liver damage or whatever it was such that, um, she
couldn't gain normal health. Yeah. And so if she's not walking and not, that's a
shame for you. And si, because then you, uh, and here she is, she was only,
what, 27 when she had the accident, but 27 when she had the accident, 29 when
she died. Yeah. So she's a 27 year old bedridden. You know, I was in school. I,
you know, I was just no five when she had the accident and seven when she died,
you know, something like that. She, she was actually, she was on, on the way to
school to pick us up. She was, uh, you'd have to know the geography there but
our, our school was only a mile out of Heartland. Really? She'd gone to
Heartland and do some shopping and, and was coming over to the school to pick up
something and go home to the farm. And, uh, yes, that was between Heartland and,
and, uh, our school. So, you know, right where it was where the a, you know,
where the accident was right near the one side of the road is where they
eventually built Arrowhead High School up. All, all the property on one side of
the school was, was, was sold to the, he had to build the school. Uh, and what
was the name of your school when you were, your primary school? Swallowed
school? Oh, I do remember that. Ok. Swallow school. Did I tell you about that?
The, one of the night, uh, or weekend nurses, you know, um, we have different
nurses come in on the, on the weekend and I don't know how I got talking to one
of them and found out she was from Heartland and, and not only from Heartland
but from the part of Heartland that was very close to swallow school, you know,
swallow school very well. And had, had worked in Shanequa, the little, little
village where I was actually born. So she knew the geography of the place very
well. She's only, well, maybe she's in her thirties now and I went to Arrow
ahead of course, but she didn't know that, uh, my brothers, uh, uh, we, we
decided she went to high school after, after they were, uh, uh, out of school.
How did you happen to figure this out? Do you remember? I'm trying to think what
the conversation was. I, uh, I think I asked her where she was from, which I
frequently do because just to get to know someone and get them and start a
conversation and she said Heartland that I had jumped. Uh, and then now there,
there was something I, I can't remember what. Then I, you know, Waukesha has
been in the news a lot because of the deaths in the parade and the anniversary
of that. But I don't think we were talking about that. Ok. Not too many people
even know where Heartland is, you know. So, yeah, not too many people. Nowhere
Walker shy. I always disappointed when long time Madison. So, I don't know where
Rocky. Well, I mean, there are people that are not very worldly, you know, they
don't relate to maps like I do. Yeah, Waukesha seems like it's obvious when you
drive to Milwaukee, you go, you know, just pack w shop. So, so many people see
it. But, and if you don't get off the freeway, you, you never go through
Waukesha. I agree. There aren't many reasons to go to the city of Waukesha, but
I thought they'd at least be aware of it because it's, it's, it's one of the
larger cities in, in Wisconsin really. It's probably, you know, like 60,000
population or something like that. I don't know what it is today. Maybe it's
because it's the, it seems like it's a world away sometimes politically where it
out, Madison Milwaukee, it's in people's minds. Just part of the Milwaukee area.
That's how it was. They probably don't know us either. And the wall, I was
surprised the strong connection of your family with Wawa Tosa and with Milwaukee
area, the strong connection of your family, with the Milwaukee area. Yeah,
because most of them died in that area. No Charlie or Carl was the exception.
He's the only one that left the Milwaukee area and went into the farming all
over the Green Wall. But that's, that's someone they married into that family.
So, yeah, but Charlie's parents, for instance, also came to the US. They, they
must have immigrated with him in the WTO area. So they all died or their, their
gravestones are in, like Wosa and I had no idea that they, yeah, I knew, like I
told him, my mother was related to half the Germans in Milwaukee. So then his,
his sisters, Rika and Caroline and all those also, it sounds like stayed in the
Milwaukee area. Charlie's sisters. That's what I'm talking about. Yeah. All of
the family and, and then it looks like Lillian and Isla, I mean, that explains
why they were brought up in Cap, but they end up back in Milwaukee. You, you're
right. They would go and stay with aunts or cousins in Milwaukee too until they
get a job which, you know, in Medford they weren't even in Medford. They were
rural area. But, uh, they went to high school. So I think, I don't know if I
talk to you. Your family is unusual and, uh, the older Children went to high
school and the younger ones did not, but the older ones all went away. They
didn't stay around Stetson because there wasn't much to do, especially for girls
already married a farmer or, or you moved, uh, oh, so it was really the choice
between going to the Minneapolis area or the Milwaukee area. And, uh, because
they had relatives in Milwaukee that the way the family went, it seem that they
got married in Milwaukee and then stayed there. Let me, I went there for
schooling, basically little and, uh, went to some kind of a nursing school and
was a practical nurse before she married. And Burt, I don't know if she did
anything but besides hairdressing, but I went through that but went to what they
used to call beauty school. And then you said somewhere in the twenties, the
Pitzy family, Mabel and Charlie started having financial trouble, filed for
bankruptcy or something. They went through bankruptcy. And uh I tell you why,
why one of the reasons I wanted to see uh Jim Newton's family, I think the woman
I remember and, and was referred to as Aunt Alma. That was James's wife, was his
wife and actually lived, there was a, there was a second house on the Pittsy
farm and what happened when they um uh no, I it was, it was sc me when they, uh
what's the financial bankruptcy when they went through bankruptcy? I don't know
how much land if it was 80 acres, I think perhaps that a family was allowed to
keep. And at that time Harvey was home farming with them and was over 21. And so
he could keep a farm too. And so they had 80 acres that was under his name and
that's where this house was. It was only like a city block away from their own
house. And there was an old barn there too. Not that they didn't milk cows in
it, but it had been an independent farm obviously. And they always referred to
it as Harvey's farm because legally, uh I believe he was the owner and they had
kept that 80 by because they could uh make his bankruptcy separate from, from
Charlie and May cause is that right? And, and so really they had a larger piece
of land than, than most farms because they, they could keep two bankruptcy
farms. And anyhow, that house on that uh in part of my childhood, they rented to
Elma and her second husband, which was who was George Meyer. So that I can
remember that name. But I do and I didn't, I can't remember, remember him. I can
remember almost kind of vaguely and I can remember some of the cousins because
they were roughly the ages of, of May's younger Children, Roland and Danny and
Isla. And I remember Carol and I think the oldest girl was Pearl. As I remember
because of unusual name. It has the, and then the oldest oldest son was Irving
and the younger son was Lowell and they were both, they were both in World War
two too. I think, I think Irving was an officer. I think he was in the Air Air
Force. Um Oh, this is kind of vague. That's why I was hoping to see all the
names when I, next time I will have all the names and I don't know, I guess you
told me they lived in Minneapolis for a while. Well, it could be because I
don't, they came back for whatever reason they came back to Stetson. And so I
suspect was from there. But, uh, I'm just guessing at that. But anyhow, the
family, um, II, I came back to, my father, came back home. The kids came back to
Stetson area. Well, that makes sense. I mean, she went back to where she was
logically go home. And those were the thing I remember was the one stage after
World War two and the servicemen came back, one of the boys, I think it was
Irving, but I'm not sure, uh, ran a tavern in Stetson. But that's, and they had
a different last name or would they be Newton? Newton? Even though their mom
remarried? They were Newtons. Ok. Yes, we can track that where they moved. I
wanna say Moorhead, Minnesota. But I'm not certain of that. That, that, that's
where Alma died anyway. And if that might be where her Children moved with her,
I don't know. No, I don't know. I don't know what happened to her after that
period when she rented the house. And, but you were, oh, I know you were saying
about the bankruptcy that after, after the pissy went bankrupt after the farm
went bankrupt, then the younger Children weren't able to go to high school
because they didn't have a car anymore to get to school. Is that right? Or? They
didn't? Yeah. Even, even getting the clothes, clothing to go school was an issue
with the time they, for practical purposes didn't have any cash. They were
shoved back the subsistence farming. And they might have, need the Children to
work on the farm too. If they didn't have help on the farm. Did they need the
kids to work on the farm to do some labor? And, and you and your mother, we
still don't know if your mother fell in the older half or the younger half.
Well, she was pretty much in the middle but I guess she had more to do with the
older half. Yeah. So she could have gone to high school. We don't know that I
can remember when I was a real little boy. It was probably before her accident
when Burt Lilian would come out to visit her for the afternoon. It was a funny
story. I remember those days we had always had our milk and glass bottles that
we bottled ourselves at the farm. But then we had a lot of bottles because for a
while my dad had, had a little, um, milk grout, sold retail raw milk from the
farm. And I don't know what years I was really, it was like when I was three
years old, I don't really remember that. But I remember stories about it and,
and my dad told me about it. And um, but anyhow, when I was that age three or
four, and Burt and Willian were visiting my mother one afternoon and they were
drinking coffee and they all put milk in their coffee and I was begging for
coffee or something. And so somebody said, well, we give him, give him a little
coffee with lots of milk in it. And so somebody poured it out and I drank it.
And I said, this tastes soapy, soapy, like, you know, wash your hands and they
look around and they poured what they thought was milk out of a bottle that had
dishwasher soaking you. Oh, soapy water. So I'm surprised you ever drank coffee
again. And I say, oh, I'm, I'm sure what I remember is the story being told
about me when I was a little bit older. I can't remember the taste of it. I just
remember that everybody laughed about it for years. I'm sure. Oh gosh. Well, I
can remember that the layout of the, the old house we lived in, in those years,
we lived there until, until about the time I started school, I didn't go to
school from there. We were in a different house on the same farm by then, but
they fixed up another old house for us. And that was in China and it was a
farmhouse that your dad worked at. Is that right? He didn't own it but he
managed it. I see a change because when he went there, I don't know if he was
farming on what they call shares. II, I suspect that's it. I mean, that's, I
don't know if you know what that means of harm. But, but the, the, the landowner
owned the, owned the cows and the machinery that and, and the tenant just did
the labor and the, the milk check, which was the practically the sole support of
the farm was divided in some portion, depending on how much of the, there are
two ways of done. If the, if the tenant owned the cows and the machinery, then
the standard split was half and half. The landowner got half, the tenant got
half when the landowner had the machinery and the cows. Um uh I don't know how
it was split. It was more like 7525. But I, and I don't know what basis my dad
was there on in those years whether uh I, I know it was on a share. It wasn't on
a salary basis because he talked, I remember he told me stories about when now
this is during the heart of the depression or milk prices were so extremely low,
but how the farm didn't make any money at all. So then what did he do for an
income? Well, you didn't do anything. You, you didn't spend any money. That's
true. The depression for everyone. And I say when the farm didn't make any
money, they had certain things you had to buy, I mean, you had to buy gasoline.
If you had a tractor or truck you had to buy, uh, uh, oh, dairy supplies, uh,
uh, to strain the milk and the wash every little thing. They were not big, but
they had a big electric bill. We always had electricity and electric. But, but
after those bills were paid, the farm didn't make any income. And so then you
had from the a and the rest of the story, my dad was telling me that in those
days we had a couple what we call borders. There were men, single men that ate
all their meals with us. They were, they were what they call caretakers
gardeners uh and lived there for, for a big house in the state on the lake which
was just less, less than a quarter mile away from us. We were just up the hill
from the lake there and two of those men a boarded with us by ate with us three
meals a day for all those, those early years there. And he's saying that was the
only money they took in and they, but they had to have, I had to buy groceries.
If you had orders like that, they were paying, you had to have good meals to
them three days a day, things like coffee and sugar and flour. And then you
couldn't, you couldn't just things that grew on the farm, huh? And then saying
that's, that's the only money they really had at the end of the month and they
had to live on that. So, I was thinking you all became vegetarian. I was
thinking maybe everyone became vegetarians, dairy milk. And I thought you had,
you had and you, and I didn't know how many animals you had. I still meet. But,
and anyhow, and that's when my diet, dad started this little milk route. That
was probably just a square mile, four miles around. And, and mostly people he
knew and that because he didn't really promote that very heavily. And we had, at
the time, at the time in the mid thirties, there was a class of milk they call
certified. The pasteurization laws had come in in the twenties and it was ready
to stop the spread of TB tuberculosis as pasteurization was set. So that would
absolutely kill any, any tuberculosis and milk had been identified as the
primary cause of the spread of tuberculosis in this country. And just like a lot
of people want raw milk. Today. There are a lot more people that wanted raw milk
back in those days. And that's certified milk uh uh came from farms. Hello? Are
they regularly, I think like an annual basis, blood tested the cows to make sure
that there was no tuberculosis. Even though tuberculosis by that time was almost
completely eradicated from cattle in Wisconsin and nationally, it was still a
major cause of spreading TV, with raw milk. And for the people that wanted raw
milk but not TV. Obviously they had, they had this, I've got here, they had this
level of what they call certified milk and it said certified pasteurized, but
from a farm that was certified to be free of tuberculosis and uh well,
pasteurize. So talking too much. So it sounds like your dad could do this for a
little extra income. Is that right? It would be extra income for your dad. It's
when they, I don't know, 1935 or something, I'll let you get your water. I'm
gonna get some water too, pick up truck. And every morning after milking they
would have to pour like, I don't know how many bottles they ever sold and maybe
um 5080 a day or something and make this, the M road is roughly four miles
stretch and peddle milk house to house. But it was incredible. You know,
suburban areas of the, the houses were quite a ways apart and it wasn't like
going down a city street because uh well, it was adjacent to Harland. They
didn't sell much in Harland. It was mostly the houses around Harland when even
in my, in my youth and one after the, he gave up the home peddling milk. A
couple of the neighbors from not too far away used to come with gallon pails and
buy milk for us. So they kept it going. Yeah. Well, I mean, but that, that was
very much. But, uh, but they liked your milk. Maybe they liked your milk. They
weren't gonna go to the store and bypass your milk. I'm sure it was cheaper than
mine, commercial milk they could buy at the grocery store and it wasn't that
certainly cheaper than having a pedal to them. Yeah. Yeah. So, I'm curious about
the borders you had? Well, first of all, I didn't think much about how the
depression affected you. I, I, yeah, I mean, I knew with my, in my mom's, you
know, in mom's case I would hear stories about that but I didn't think how it
affected you on a farm. And I wonder with the borders then did your mom end up?
Did you? She cooked these meals for both you and si and Harold and then the
Borders as well. That is my family style part of the family. But she cooked the
meal. So your mom in her twenties is raising two kids and cooking for our
borders as well. I mean, that's normal life for a farm person. But I just was
your mom a real strong woman before.