We stadium for football game when we were, if you, uh, sign up for seats,
they'll sign you a seat. So we sat in the same place every game. So you got to
know the people around you. No kidding? Oh, I love it. And then my wife was,
she's a, she was a girl. And so like she tells the story, I fell, I followed her
home after one game. That way. That's the way I remember it. But it's a good
story. Oh, guys. So she went to school for agriculture as well. No, no
psychologist eventually became a teacher. Wow. Smart lady. I'm sorry, I didn't
get to meet her last month. You couldn't, you couldn't really, because she
wasn't really herself. No. So I know you went, you went into the military? So,
at what point did that happen? Uh, after two years of college I had two years
and then the Korean War was going on and, and, uh, the G I Bill while I was, I
had trouble financing, I should say I had trouble, had to finance my own college
years. And, uh, so the G I BILL looks pretty good. So I and listed for two years
that was during the Korean War. And, uh, I served two years in the US Army but,
and served, uh, I was stationed in Berlin Germany, which was a good place during
the Korean War. And, uh, well, we were married before I went overseas. He was
pregnant. And so, oh, you were not married. And so when I came back we reserve,
resumed our life. Yeah, I went to school and she was, she was raising babies or
working part time. Who was the first baby? What, who was the first baby? Joel?
Yeah. And so you probably know the story of it. We eventually had six Children
and, uh, Children. Are we in our life? And that's people asked me, oh, we were
married for 72 years. They said there wasn't any choice. We, we were raising a
family and I just wonder marriage. Well, Eric said yesterday that when you all
were out of the house or when you were all 18, you, you decided you were gonna
travel and I, I thought that was, that showed a, a big commitment to your
marriage. I think Susan will never quite forgive you because I think your last
child was a freshman in college just left high school to go to college and my
parents moved to Kenya. We moved out of the country. She was a freshman in
college. Her parents were across the world. We're done. Bye bye. It's been 20
years. We're raising you. We're out of here. That is very funny. I remember
writing a lot of checks to support them. And the three younger ones, Lauria, the
younger ones were through college by then. But when we were living overseas and
Kenya, a monthly ritual ritual send, check out to the college kids. So, how many
years in Kenya? 04 years in Kenya? Ok. Sure. Wonderful years. Uh, well, II, I
say it was still the good years and you can't have that. Everything is relative.
But uh the, the, the wildlife viewing was I went there once. It still is as far
as that. But also we got into climbing mountains, climbed on Kenya and while we
were there and um for just a weekends drive from the, from the coast, ocean
coast, amazing love to go there. So, yeah, so that was fun. And my job was
relatively non confining. So we had a lot of, a lot of time off, long weekends
and holidays celebrated Canon holidays and American holidays. Did you learn the
language? No, first of all, this is former British East Africa and, and English
is a language of business and commerce. And so, um, I, we here and a dozen other
what I call tribal languages, but they call mother tongues are really the
common. I remember everybody learns the mother tongue first. Of course, that's
what their mother talk and, and then they'll learn a lot of swed but all
education is in English. So, so then they understood the people we were working
with were spoke English pretty well. When I went there, I remember people saying
jambo, jambo jambo jambo that I remembered. Yeah, so four years in Kenya and
then where did you go? How was it, Egypt, Egypt. For the next, it wasn't quite
contiguous. Trying to think what happened. Was there Ethiopia in between or
Swaziland? Well, I did some work in Uganda while I was still living in Kenya.
That was part time work. They couldn't, that was shortly after your men. And
they were so the first program that was, that was about as much excitement than
we ever had. We live in a, uh wall compound and they locked in at night, but he
heard the shooting around the city. But, uh, and then, uh, well, those were the
big ones in, in Africa. Those were the, the most significant countries in
Africa. There were more not done yet. Then we live in Egypt after that. See,
this is the whole contract work when the contract was over, you gotta find
another job. The next job was with the same organization, a very different
project in Egypt. We lived in Cairo for three years, completely different
culture and I loved you, Cairo. I didn't enjoy it nearly as much. First of all,
the congestion and pollution that got to me, the only place I ever lived where
once a month on a weekend, you gotta, I just felt like I had to get out of the
city and you just get out in the desert, in the desert. Sure. We went to is to
spend weekends. Um No, no watching the Suez Canal. Remember that was impressive
people. But one of the sites I remember there, the beautiful hotel overlook the
whole of the uh of the canal and, and the boats all moved and lying at a, at a
certain pace. That's because it could help it narrow. So they can't, they can't
talk. And so when they move, they all move at the same pace. And so that is this
long line of both for miles going. They go one way for 12 hours and then go the
other way for 12 hours. Don't know. Uh No, I was just fascinated with the canal.
I say it was nice, clean air. It was out of the city. Where did you go after
that? What country, the car we were back in the US for a year or most of the
year. And then uh I, I might have done some short term work with. Uh I uh my
next place where you live was Lesotho. And I don't know if you know where they
Lesotho was uh geographically the highest altitude country in the world. What
what? No, no place below 4000 ft goes from 4000 up to 12,000. And uh very uh for
that it's completely enclosed by South Africa that it was, um, well, what the,
what the Brits, old South Africans and Brits used to call the homelands where
they forced the, the, um, black African salute. And then these were the moment
people, they are a very different culture than the only, the only African people
that use horses or ponies and rode ponies. And, um, uh, I mean, uh, the, the
country supported itself, uh, workers were going to South Africa to work in the
mines and factories. So all the young men worked out of the country. Oh,
horrible society because I worked with cooperators. I just got the c offices I
worked there were, oh, credit unions. Most people don't think of credit unions
as a cooperative's the basic legal structure and who I worked with credit unions
and uh went out to these little villages where people existed by having tilling
little small cornfields on the hill side and living from year to year while the
young men were all went away about nine months of the year when they came home
at Christmas, it was celebration in the whole country. They brought money home
and brought gifts for the whole family. And yeah, no time. But I say it, that
was a horrible, horrible way to have society in the meanwhile, the cooperators I
worked with were basically run by the older women that were left at home. That's
incredible there in three years, three years three years and then there's one
more country and then there was a lot to add on in Swaziland, which is very
close to Lesotho. And uh all, all of my work was funded by USA ID, USA ID, A
USA? Oh, they're just different projects. Oh, ok. So USA ID was your employer.
It's government, the US, government private contractor, which was actually a
cooper. The OC A, it doesn't matter what it is an acronym of. Yeah, but, uh, U
USA doesn't do any of the work itself, you know, when they build or a bridge or
something that's all contracted. And then the field, we were cooper and, uh,
education and organization. They, they have a project to help establish, um,
cooperator or train them or do something there. And that's, that's why I say a
USA, a ID project. So, uh, your Children spent years there as well in these
countries. The three young, the youngest, very good and very nice, uh, favorable
contract. And, uh, instead of you're going home to visit the Children in the
summer and you're gonna have them all come and see you as long as they were in
college where the three youngest one were in college. Ok. So they weren't
raised, there were two of them spent a semester there and picked up a part time
teaching job and boyfriends of course, and wanted to stay in Africa for a while.
Almost married some of them. Right. A few of them had wedding proposals. So
before you went to Africa, you worked in the same for the same type of work
here. Ok. And uh when we originally went over, it was a what I call a two year
lark. They, they promised us it was just a two year contract, not the type of
thing could be extended because it was basically a study. And uh so Elaine was,
was teaching and I was working up in Saint Paul at the time and we lived in my
walls, Wisconsin up on the border. And Elaine was teaching at Hudson and I was
commuting to Saint Paul. And, uh, we owned a house there, of course, assumed we
were gonna come back and resume our life. But things changed while we were gone,
we change and the economy changed the farm. The farming economy really fell
apart in those years that uh, early eighties, eighties, 85. And so my farm
co-operative that I worked for while they promised me a job. They really didn't
have anything for me to do. They were laying off people. And so they were happy
for me to look elsewhere. And so then I eventually found another, uh, project to
work on. Ok. I've got things a little bit of sequence. That's ok because that's
when we went to, that's when we went to Egypt. But the point is when we left, we
assumed we were gonna come back and resume our life and it, it never works
according to plan. And, and, uh, we, we like to live overseas and the money was
there. I think so. I took care of our kids but I was sending them a check every
month. But, uh, they provide a lot of, a lot of perks and those jobs you got the
housing and some of my other, I want all my own and they paid electricity.
Hardly had any expenses. Pretty nice lifestyle. Hard to come home when you've
got that. And no winter, no winter, little change for Wisconsin people. You, we,
we missed winter. I did. At first we used to take our annual leave in winter in
two weeks around Christmas. But, uh, eventually there's got to be a burden. Did
you ever get malaria? No. Ok. Malaria girls all over there. And then, um, I did
short term work in Uganda and, uh, a little bit in Tanzania. No, it's been a
month in Tanzania. And then, and, uh, uh, Ethiopia, that was good, good project
in Ethiopia. But because it was there three different times for short periods,
two weeks to four weeks at a time. But, uh, set up an educational program for
co-operatives there that was quite su successful or evaluated. Well, at the
time. So, about when were you back here? For good? Well, and I know 1991 91.
Yeah. Yeah, because we, I remember telling things out of the way we were just
see if you open that. But then I got the A um uh there was just one year
contracts in, in Lesotho and Swaziland that we talked about. And that's, that's
the last time I really was full time employee overseas where we lived there. So
when you came back, where did you live when you lived here? Madison? I remember
because that's when Julian was born, grandchildren were starting, they were
starting to come. So you got home right about when Julian was short for the
birth. Wait, so you had a few, so, grandparents were here essentially for his
whole life. But then you had the farm out in, um, you had that farm in deerfield
or the house? Oh, you had a home and live and lasted less than two years. You
needed to work, huh? You wanted to know the retirement last? Oh, the house can't
travel. I, I was getting short term assignments and I worked in a lot of the
Soviet Republics, Kazakhstan. Ukraine's been six week in Ukraine and, um,
Latvia, um, Macedonia. No business. And, uh, Albania, which nobody can find on
the map. I think I can find it. I can't find other places. I think I can.
Croatia. Albania was interesting because it was the last communist country in
Europe lasted after the, after the Soviet Union collapsed. Albania was still
independent communist. So you, you must be a history buff too. As much as world
affairs, world affairs. Yeah, politics. So, what did you do for a hobby? Well, I
mean, you're over there every day. You also ran a little bit, dad? Oh, you were
a runner? You were a runner, run marathon? I started running when I, yeah, we
still live in it. It was hard, hard to get exercise over there. Yeah. And, and
there weren't many facilities but running was something I could do no matter
where I was when I traveled and I always knew it came easy to me. And so I had a
couple of younger guys who were posted over there for a short term with, I
thought they were runners and I followed, like, 10 years old. I can run a lot
better than they were. I'm like, I'm like that too. Eventually they had the, the
first marathon they ever held in Kenya while I was there. Yeah. Did you run in
it? I was over 50. 0, that's amazing. Incredible. Stayed with running until, was
about 68. 0, my last, my last marathon. I, I didn't run them off but you did
when you did so well, they take a long time to train. Yeah. Yeah, that's, of
course, that's the hard one to get into. I am so impressed. And New York and
Chicago, Las Vegas and, you know, we picked our spots. Yeah, a little vacation
did run to eventually. She was not, naturally, it's one of those two of Laura's
sisters were not me but another two marathons with me. Oh, we won some, well, I
remember with Christina. Oh, no, it was really, uh, uh, father and, and so in
the event and we won it as a father and daughter and they won time. Chris was a
good, I was good for my age. The fathers of course were mostly my age because
James could compete with anyone when she was, she won a lot of, it was a family
thing. Yeah. So we used to run a lot of amateur races around Wisconsin. Mhm.
Well, you know, you all run 5, 10 kilometers. Just, yeah, just for fun. Yeah, of
course. I can, I can relate. Wow. Huh. Did a little skiing. You also did cross
country skiing when I knew you that fell by the wayside after Kenya. Mostly the
same shape. That's good cardio. It's just because you live in Wisconsin, you
have to ski and obviously that your family's devotion to you would, would lead
me to believe that you, that you're a family man too. Before all this, I felt
like that was kind of thinking of occasion where my family was loafing overseas
or here. That was the first time you couldn't spend with the family. But I say
they were, I actually dad, we realized something when you and mom were gone. I
don't know if you remember us telling you this, but the siblings, we bonded
greatly when you were gone because what would happen is we would have Christmas
or Thanksgiving and instead of going home to parents, which you just naturally
do, we'd be like, 01 of us would take that role. So we became pretty tight.
That's why you're different. But we're pretty tight. Still when your parents are
gone for 68 years, it's not like we didn't see you. We went to Kenyon and we
saw, but we did become cohesive and then they came back and we had 2030 years.
This explains so much because you didn't like most families. You go home and you
have the same patterns that you did as a child and you bicker and, you know, we
broke those patterns. We totally disrupted all that but formed new patterns. I
understand. Now, I do. We eventually we say we, when I first retired, uh, I
built a nice big house out in a rural area on Deer, Deerfield, Wisconsin. Not
that far from suburban. And, um, yeah, that's not, that lasted two years. I can
tell you the story about that too. But, uh, it was, I know we, we ended up not
working, you know, even though it was only 10 miles out in the country, you gave
it a try driving into town at night. We decided to sell an old house, University
of Heights, right? Kind of where we started camp Randall. Oh, yeah. Yeah. Ok. We
ended up living there for 17 years to one president. Old three story house and
they had a fold on the serves one day. I thought it were better get a safer
level. And so we got a little, um, conventional ranch office out in Middleton.
Ok. It's been the last five years, I hope there. And then when did you come
about three miles from my car? And then you came here? Yeah. Ok. How many years
ago did you come to Attic Angel? Oh, we've been here 76 years. A long time.
Yeah. Well, we were both so walking. Right. You're someone dad who thinks ahead.
You very much appreciate that because dad would say, I think we need to move to
a one story house or I think we need to move to assisted living. You knew that
soon you wouldn't be driving and I think you said you could see had to go.
That's the good next move. So we didn't have to say to you, oh, it's time you
guys dad did it. You're a good dad. Mom was a little resistant on that. So hard,
so hard. But you knew and then picked this place that's very helpful to the
Children. Yes, I'm, I'm beginning to understand that the reason for the devotion
that your kids have for you. Oh, yeah, one of my purposes in life. So I think
you would never gain was always first and then we see what we can do that. So,
at this, at this juncture, what is most important to you, Jim? Oh, like
everybody else, I guess. I don't like to suffer at the end. But I have fortunate
so far, essentially pain for. I can't feel anything. My legs were my knees down.
So they're in bad shape but they, they don't hurt. Um, so in case you get to a
point where you have to make a choice between pain relief and being a little
tired, would you rather have? And you don't have to know the answer now. But
would you rather be alert and have maybe a little bit of pain? Ok. So you think
that's where you'd want, you mean, rather than be drowsy by the drugs? I can't
appreciate the New York Times every day to go. Ok. And I mean, I made this
decision well, but, but, but I, I sure quality of life and we don't know how
long you have. It could be months, you know. So, yeah. Yeah. But, so what
myself, you had to get nice cold ice water. Yeah, we found an ice machine and it
was good. So, dad, you were, if I could understand, you're saying quality of
life is being able to read, you have two, he gets two newspapers every day,
being able to read the newspaper. But if you're in pain, you don't want so much
morphine that you can no longer enjoy the pain, they're gonna have to balance
that a little. But you will say right? If you're in pain, you will say yes, I
want more drugs or I don't want more. I think so. Yeah. And we can kind of tell,
you know, because you know, our faces show pain. Um So and we'll ask, the nurses
will have a way to gauge. We don't ever wanna give too much medication. We want
you to still be you. If you shout out in pain, they will know we will know if
you groan or shout, they'll be like I got pain from sitting here that we need to
get you a, a cushion or a better chair, a different chair. Would you rather be
in bed, do you think? Is it? Yeah. And because, right, but then you can put the
bed up and still sit and maybe, I don't know how much more time we have to, I
have to have him sign the cremation for my mother today. Really? What? So
people, they thought that the Japanese in the US were also the enemy or you,
you'd have to have lived through the, um propaganda lists that the US government
put on the, against the Japanese people. And those early years of World War Two,
it was very easy to hate old Japanese. And, but then why weren't Germans
interned inter um, couple of things. First of all, when the war started the war
in World War One and World War Two, they worried about exactly that in this
country because of World War one, we had a higher percentage of German first
generation people here. But part of the reason was the Germans were so pervasive
and they'd been here in so many different ways from the Pennsylvania Dutch on to
the modern times that we realized we couldn't, could just, um, uh, CGO
categorically, uh, just like all Germans there. It was like 40% of the
population was German. You wouldn't have any doctors or teachers or anyone. So,
there were too many examples of, of otherwise Germans being loyal Americans.
And, um, but they did worry about it, particularly in Milwaukee and Wisconsin.
They worry about it dates back to World War one. And, um, because it started
when, when, before we were even in the war and the other one, Wolson started
drafting and the soldiers to build up the army in 1916 or something. They had
rules. The federal government sent special riot troops to Milwaukee because
they, they expected there, there were very strong German organizations there,
what they call a bundu, which, which is, well, it wasn't really a political
movement, more of a social movement. But, um, you know, at the time there were
German schools and German churches and lots of, lots of things beyond beer. The,
um, Milwaukee was no four and still a lot of first generation Gerson. And, uh,
that's why the government worried that they would not accept their move towards
war. But, but there was no protest movement. No, walk here or any place else of
any significance or Germans, you mean, Germans clearly were declaring their
patriotism. They weren't, when you say protests, what would they have been pro
protesting against the war or, I mean, getting ready were the Japanese
protesting against? But there was, um, there was talk of Rome interning German
and even Italian citizens and World War Two and certainly in World war one they
never got around to it. Too busy recruiting and fighting the war to worry about
at home. And, oh, like I said, when 40% of your population is got some roots in
German and it pretty hard to get rid of all the Germans. Yeah, I'll see. Well,
good thing for your family. It didn't happen because grandfather guru rushed to
get American citizenship at the time. Now. He had been born in Germany. I never,
never got around. Uh, you know, by that time I owned a farm and everything that
I never got around to that was Harold's father, Harold's father. Yeah, finally,
finally got citizenship in World War one then realize that those Germans could
be a problem. Well, he was quite a successful farmer because I have the article
that the Milwaukee Sentinel wrote about not big. But you're right because it was
so quick from being an immigrant to working his way up that he said it was very
quick that he made himself a business. And um yeah, I'd say most of Wisconsin
has German Roots. Hm. This chair is very comfortable. So what I'm trying to
think of and I have breakfast in this chair. Really. It's not not any big thrill
to go down to the dining room for breakfast, worked fine, but it would work fine
here. So before when they get you out of bed in the morning, you go to the
bathroom, you can go right back into here. So this is good. We don't need to
bring your old other chair down then from upstairs.